---
title: "Work Ex"
bg: white
color: black
# fa-icon: toggle-on
---

## **Work Experience**

+ 2015 - today : [icedtea.app, Inventor](#icedtea)
+ 2011 - today : [Hitachi Payments, Vice President](#hpy)
+ 2007 - 2011 : [Exotic Derivatives Trading, Associate](#exotic)
+ 2005 (3months) : [Surrey Space Centre, Internee](#space)


<!-- | Time Period | Company | Title
| :-: | :-: | :-:
| 2015 - today | icedtea.app | Inventor
| 2011 - today | Hitachi Payments | Vice President
| 2007 - 2011 | Exotic Derivatives Trading | Associate
| 2005 | Surrey Space Centre | Internee -->

- - -

### **icedtea.app: 2015-today** {#icedtea}

I invented a human-centered financial framework. The [product wiki](https://icedtea.app){:target="_blank"} explains the concept better:

> icedtea is a finance app for humans.
>
> icedtea is a framework that helps families live the fullest lives that their financial resources allow.
>
> It does this by tinkering with their lifestyle instead of overwhelming them with jargon.
>
> *<cite>[icedtea.app](https://icedtea.app)</cite>*

My family has been using icedtea since 2016. As of now, the projects consists of these parts:
+ data: API, downloaded data, SQL Server
+ models: Python
+ interface: Django, Flask 
+ data visualization: Qlikview

I am working on an integrated app.

My career goal is to make icedtea a public product.

#### **Related Projects**

With icedtea as the primary goal, I worked on multiple related projects while acquiring and honing relevant expertise.

**[Custom Keyboards](http://mull.in/tags/keyboard/){:target="_blank"}**
+ I invented and adopted an easily transition-able, [ergonomic alternate](https://mull.in/posts/qwerty-alternate/){:target="_blank"} to the standard QWERTY layout. I quantified the benefit, and described the steps to transition in descending order of effectiveness.
+ I designed and adopted a [36 button layout](https://mull.in/posts/layers-36keys/){:target="_blank"} that retained the full functionality of the standard 108 button keyboard, thus enabling touch-typing *anything* while reducing finger travel and fatigue.
+ I developed working familiarity with 3D printing, soldering, laser-cutting and PCB design before deciding on the [custom model](/img/kaafi-keyboard.jpg){:target="_blank"} I currently use.

**Productivity** (frameworks, apps)
+ I [engaged](https://forum.obsidian.md/u/mano/summary){:target="_blank"} with developers and user communities, authored [open-source plugins](https://github.com/manogna4?tab=repositories&q=&type=source&language=&sort=){:target="_blank"} and feature requests.
+ I developed proficiency with productivity tools like Obsidian, Notion, Github, Asana, Quire, Todoist...

- - -

### **Hitachi Payments: 2011-today** {#hpy}

*Vice President*

I joined the company in the early stages, when it was Prizm Payments. I was part of the core team of business leaders and played a key role in scaling it up to become a compelling acquisition for Hitachi (and others).

Under Hitachi's aegis, I built systems and instituted programs across the company that have an extensive, sustained impact on profitability and efficiency.


#### **Data Products, Head**

I created the product stack that provides insight and actionables for business leaders across the firm. It's functionality spans assimilating primary data to managing remedial workflow at individual profit centers. I created the data warehouse and the business intelligence layer that provides the 'Single Source of Truth' for leaders and operators.

Some Highlights:

+ **Cash Logistics**\
I authored a demand forecasting asgorithm that single-handedly decreased ATM costs by 5%. I authored and owned the product used to manage 15% of India’s ATMs.
+ **Business Finance**\
I authored the annual budget individually for 50,000 profit centers broken by week based on seasonal demand, life cycle behavior, gross national trends, and political assumptions.
It allowed business leaders to identify problems as they happened.

#### **Intrapreneurship**

I was in the management team that conducted monthly performance reviews of the entire company. When suitable problems were identified in any department, I set up processes, built up teams and managed the projects until it they attained operational stability.

Some highlights:

+ **Service Delivery**\
When the business grew large enough to render escalation based prioritization methods ineffective, I engineered a process and managed a team that triaged outages by opportunity cost and customer demand. It increased profitability using existing manpower, and allowed delivery leaders to focus on de-escalating major issues.
+ **Company Culture**\
When inter departmental coordination was recognized as a problem, I established a team of Territory Managers to own remedial actions. I created a weekly meeting format in which a managers took a 'data & story' approach to present how they solved problems. It fostered a culture of peer learning, nurtured relationships, and delivered quick results. Many managers later moved into other important roles in the company.

#### **Others**

+ I recruited 6 people from my personal extended network at the Assistant Vice President level or higher.
+ I conducted discussions on the financial projections of the company with prospective partners and investors.
+ I participated in reverse auctions, and structured data-led contracts with customers and vendors.

- - -

### Exotic Derivatives Trading: 2007-2011 {#exotic}

*Associate*

At Lehman Brothers and Nomura, I managed trading books worth an excess of 1 billion USD, analyzed complex trades and wrote their handbooks.
+ I was designated as **Key Employee** when Nomura purchased Lehman.
+ I built an automated pricing tool that made a profit of 1.5 million USD.

- - -

### Surrey Space Centre: 3 months in 2005 {#space}
*Internee*

+ I built a 6-legged robot and explored the impact of gait on power consumption.
+ I was encouraged to apply for a PhD position based on my performance.